Here is the basic idea on how we go from a backlog item to one or
more tasks that it'll take to get the job done.
Use the specify step to create tasks, so a backlog card becomes tasks.
Now each task has its own note card,
and each note card will tie back to a parent backlog
card, you know, for reference.
Therefore, a one backlog card may translate into,
say,
five task cards, for example. The goal is to have each task
to take about the same amount of time.
Now, this is hard to do, quite frankly, but if possible,
will better enable your team to consume and complete the work.
Estimate the number of tasks to complete the effort.
If the specify step has two people,
they need to come to a consensus on what the decomposed tasks
are and the total count of those tasks.
Estimates are not what the task itself takes to do,
but the number of tasks. And generally speaking,
each task should be about the same size or chunk of work.
It is generally understood in the kanban community that detailed estimates of
each task, say in hours, are not value added. So please note, a kanban system
may not look at the estimate of the work item itself,
but measures all work equally and uses that
information to base future projections.
Here's an example of a kanban board with some tasks.
A backlog card comes over into specify and is turned into three task cards.
Those task cards will continue through the flow to implementation and
validate and ultimately become the delivered feature.
The task cards will always have a relationship or pointer back to the
feature, and the completed feature will have a relationship back to the
tasks that were required for that feature.
When will that work be done?
Trust me, you may be asked that question a lot,
so let's see how we might make an estimate.
First, consider a period of historical time, say four weeks.
Next, determine the number of tasks completed in that
period of time and the task per day.
So we have 80 tasks, and there were 20 days of work in
those 4 weeks, so 80 divided by 20 is 4,
so we have 4 tasks per day.
Next,
determine the current work‑in‑progress task count, and add
the estimated number of tasks to that.
So, the work in progress is 36 tasks right now, our new estimate, say, is
8 tasks, so our total would be 44 tasks. Next, calculate the estimated
time for the new work item to be complete.
That would be 44 divided by 4 tasks per day equals 11 days.
So, as you can see,
we are using the number of tasks to make our estimates and not the
actual amount of time the task would take to do.
Now we will cover more about estimation and forecasting in the module,
Managing Your Workflow. So the 11 days is known as the lead time.
So let's make sure we understand what lead time is.
Lead time is the amount of time it takes for a single unit
of work to go through the value stream.
That is the time from starting to work on a feature and
completing it and handing it off.
So in our example, it's from specify to deliver.
It's not the amount of time that it might sit in the backlog,
because it may be a case where the customer wants to reprioritize this new piece of work, so it would be the next thing to pull in.